[ADD] POS: customer credit as payment method (#13700)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/point_of_sale/payment_methods/customer_credit.rst

================
Customer account
================

The **Customer account** feature allows customers to use their account to make purchases. On the one
hand, they can deposit money for future purchases or, on the other hand, select their account as
:doc:`payment method <../payment_methods>` to purchase items on credit and :ref:`settle the debt
later <pos/settle_debt>` through a point-of-sale transaction or via an issued invoice.

.. _pos/payment_method/configuration:

Configuration
=============

To allow customers to pay using their customer account, :doc:`create a payment method
<../payment_methods>` and configure it as follows:

#. Tick the :guilabel:`Identify Customer` checkbox.
#. Keep the :guilabel:`Journal` field blank to use the customer's receivable account.
#. Once configured, navigate to the :ref:`POS settings <configuration/settings>`.

> #. Add the payment method to the :guilabel:`Payment Methods` field.

Reviewer: From what I can see in 18.4, you can set the Point of Sale field on the payment method directly; the payment method is automatically added to the list of payment methods in the pos settings

.. note::

>    - Set a maximum sales credit to prevent customers from exceeding a defined credit limit. Once the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Set a maximum sales credit to prevent customers from exceeding a defined credit limit. Once the
```
since it's the only item in the list I don't think we need a list

     maximum credit amount is reached, the selected customer button turns orange and a
     :icon:`fa-warning` (:guilabel:`warning sign`) icon appears next to the customer’s name as a

>      warning. However, this warning does **not** prevent a sale from proceeding.

Reviewer: where and how? is this explained in another doc?

Reviewer: Sorry :sweat_smile: I tend to lose track when PRs are a bit older, my bad!

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`../../../finance/accounting/payments`
   - :doc:`../../../finance/accounting/get_started/chart_of_accounts`

Payment process
===============

Deposit money
-------------

To deposit money to the customer account from the POS interface:

> #. Click :guilabel:`Customer` to open the list of customers.
> #. Locate the desired customer and click the :icon:`fa-bars` (:guilabel:`hamburger menu`) icon to
>    open the dropdown menu.
> #. Click :guilabel:`Deposit money`.

Reviewer: I think we can group some of these steps differently to focus on the purpose instead of "what happens" when clicking UI elements (e.g., in this case, it's not really necessary to say that you click the hamburger icon *to open the dropdown menu*).
```suggestion
#. Click :guilabel:`Customer` and locate the desired customer in the list.
#. Click the :icon:`fa-bars` (:guilabel:`hamburger menu`) icon, then select :guilabel:`Deposit money`.
```

#. Choose the payment method.
#. When redirected to the payment screen, enter the amount to deposit using the keypad.
#. :guilabel:`Validate` the transaction.
#. Click :guilabel:`Yes` on the popup window to confirm.

Pay using the customer account

> ------------------------------

Reviewer: I find this heading confusing because this documentation addresses the administrator or a user and these are not the people who actually "pay using the customer account"; i'd rephrase this

> To use the customer account to pay for a purchase from the POS payment screen:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the customer account as a payment method for a purchase from the POS payment screen:
```
(same as above)

#. Select the payment method :ref:`created for the customer account
   <pos/payment_method/configuration>`.

> #. Click :icon:`fa-user` :guilabel:`Customer` to open the customer list and select a customer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click :icon:`fa-user` :guilabel:`Customer` to open the customer list and select the customer.
```

> #. Tick the :guilabel:`Invoice` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the :guilabel:`Invoice` button.
```
ticking a button sounds a bit weird and you can actually click anywhere on the button and the box will be checked as a result

#. :guilabel:`Validate` the purchase.

.. important::
   To effectively monitor and manage the customer’s unpaid debt, either :doc:`create an invoice

>    <../receipts_invoices>` for the order or activate the :doc:`Accounting application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <../receipts_invoices>` for the order or install the :doc:`Accounting application
```

   <../../../finance/accounting>`.

> To ensure due balance follow-up, generate an invoice or download the accounting application.

Reviewer: I think you forgot to remove this?

Debt tracking
=============

> When a customer pays using their customer account, they make purchases on credit; meaning the
> purchase amount is considered a debt until the customer pays it off. To keep track of a customer’s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hen a customer pays using their customer account, the purchase amount is recorded as debt until it is paid off. To keep track of a customer’s
```

debt, consult their customer statement in the backend or their profile in an open session.

To access the :guilabel:`Customer Statement` report, go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Orders
--> Customers`, select a customer to open their form, and click the :guilabel:`Customer Statements`
smart button.

> To overview the total amount due or deposited by a customer from an open session, access the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the total amount due or deposited by a customer from an open session, access the
```

customer list by clicking :guilabel:`Customer` and search for the desired customer; the amount due
or deposited is displayed next to their name.

.. image:: customer_credit/customer-list.png
   :scale: 60 %
   :alt: customer list and summary of their customer accounts

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../../finance/accounting/payments/follow_up`

.. note::
   When a customer is related to a company, the customer statement report might be related to the
   company itself, and not the customer.

.. _pos/settle_debt:

Due amount settlement
=====================

To settle a customer's due amount, :ref:`register the payment from the invoice

> <accounting/payments/from-invoice-bill>` or, from an open session, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<accounting/payments/from-invoice-bill>` or, from the POS interface, follow these steps:
```
(cf our discussion with emmi about this; we can discuss it again if needed!)

#. Click :guilabel:`Customer` and search for the desired customer in the list.
#. Click the :icon:`fa-bars` (:guilabel:`hamburger menu`) icon next to the customer's name.

> #. Select :guilabel:`Settle orders` or :guilabel:`Settle invoices`.

Reviewer: I only had *Settle invoices*; when do we get *Settle orders* exactly?

#. Select the orders or invoices to settle.

> #. Click :guilabel:`Payment` to proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click :guilabel:`Payment` and select the relevant payment method.
```

#. Click :guilabel:`Validate`.
#. Click :guilabel:`Yes` on the popup window to confirm the deposit of the payment received from the
   customer.

.. image:: customer_credit/customer-account-summary.png
   :scale: 55 %

>    :alt: menu to settle orders or invoices

Reviewer: I don't think this screenshot is necessary; i'd remove it

===============
Customer credit
===============

The **Customer credit** feature allows customers to purchase items and incur a debt with the
company, which can be :ref:`settled later <pos/settle_accounts>` either through a point-of-sale
transaction or via an issued invoice.

Configuration
=============

To allow customers to pay on credit, follow these steps:

#. :doc:`Create a payment method <../payment_methods>`.
#. Tick the :guilabel:`Identify Customer` checkbox.
#. Keep the :guilabel:`Journal` field blank, as there is no journal entry tied to a specific bank or
   cash journal created when using the payment method.

> Once configured, a credit sale is completed by selecting this payment method after a customer's
> purchase. This action automatically generates the following accounting entries:
> 
> - A debit in Accounts Receivable.
> - A credit in the Income account.
> 
> Upon later settling the accounts (i.e., receiving payment from the customer), the following
> accounting entries are made:
> 
> - A debit in an Outstanding Account.
> - A credit in Accounts Receivable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once configured and added to the list of guilabel:`Payment methods` field in the :ref:`POS settings <add ref>`, you can select the payment method to validate a customer's credit purchase.
```
- I know the POS settings part is mentioned on the main Payment methods doc page but I think it's worth repeating here since it's so short.
- See also my general comment about grouping "order processing" steps in one place (select customer - select payment method, enable Invoice).
- Cf my comment above about leaving the Journal field blank
- Even after we've clarified this journal field thing, I think we should remove this info about journal entries: I really don't think we need to get into this topic in the PoS doc; this is a standard invoice/payment flow, which is documented in the Accounting section.
